---
layout: post
title: HTML5常用新特性
category: web前端
tags: [web前端]
---

### Local Storage

HTML5 introduced several methods of storing data within the clients browser. Two of these methods are local and session storage. `localStorage` saves data until it is removed by the client or app whereas `sessionStorage` saves data until the session ends, when the browser window/tab is closed.


** Storing a JSON object in local storage **

Attempting to store a `JSON object`, or an ordinary `array` of data, in local storage will yield an error. Local storage requires you to store strings of information. To store a JSON object in local storage you will need to convert it into a JSON-formatted string, using the `JSON.stringify() `function.

  var dataToStore = JSON.stringify(data);

Then it’s just a case of storing the new JSON-formatted string in local storage:

  localStorage.setItem('someData', dataToStore);

** Loading a JSON object from local storage **

Now that the JSON object is stored locally you can access the data directly from the device, without having to make a request to the remote server. However, because the object was previously converted to a JSON-formatted string, you will have to reverse the effects of the stringify function before you can access the data within the object. This is easily done through use of the JSON.parse() function:

  var localData = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('someData'));

### Required、Placeholders、Pattern New Form Types Attribute

### New Doctype

### The Figure Element

### <small> Redefined

###  No More Types for Scripts and Links

You possibly still add the type attribute to your link and script tags.

    1 <link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
    2 <script type="text/javascript" src="path/to/script.js"></script>

This is no longer necessary. It's implied that both of these tags refer to stylesheets and scripts, respectively. As such, we can remove the type attribute all together.

    1 <link rel="stylesheet" href="path/to/stylesheet.css" />
    2 <script src="path/to/script.js"></script>


### To Quote or Not to Quote.

...That is the question. Remember, HTML5 is not XHTML. You don't have to wrap your attributes in quotation marks if you don't want to you. You don't have to close your elements. With that said, there's nothing wrong with doing so, if it makes you feel more comfortable. I find that this is true for myself.

    <p class=myClass id=someId> Start the reactor.

### Make your Content Editable

    <ul contenteditable=true>


### The Semantic Header and Footer



###  Audio Support

###  Video Support

### Preload Videos

###  Display Controls

If you're working along with each of these tips and techniques, you might have noticed that, with the code above, the video above appears to be only an image, without any controls. To render these play controls, we must specify the controls attribute within the video element.

    <video preload controls>

### Mark Element

### What is Not HTML5

People can be forgiven for assuming that awesome JavaScript-less transitions are grouped into the all-encompassing HTML5. Hey -- even Apple has inadvertently promoted this idea. For non-developers, who cares; it's an easy way to refer to modern web standards. However, for us, though it may just be semantics, it's important to understand exactly what is not HTML5.

SVG: Not HTML5. It's at least five years old.

CSS3: Not HTML5. It's...CSS.

Geolocation: Not HTML5.

Client Storage: Not HTML5. It was at one point, but was removed from the spec, due to the fact that many worried that it, as a whole, was becoming too complicated. It now has its own specification.

Web Sockets: Not HTML5. Again, was exported to its own specification.
Regardless of how much distinction you require, all of these technologies can be grouped into the modern web stack. In fact, many of these branched specifications are still managed by the same people.

### The Data Attribute

### The Output Element

### Create Sliders with the Range Input
